# Winning Baseball Games in the RMAC
Final Project for Regis University Data Science Practicum II - Spring 2019

The Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference is an NCAA division II athletic conference with team located in various states in the Rocky Mountain region. The conference has had anywhere from eight to ten baseball teams since 2004 with all teams having the same goal: win baseball games. As the leader of the team, the head coach must make decisions that will lead to the team to victory in games with many of these decisions surrounding what the team will work on during practice, and what kind of player will be recruited to join the team in years to come. As such, it would be helpful for a coach to know which aspects of a baseball game most contribute to the outcome of a win. Overall, there are three aspects of the game, batting, fielding, and pitching. Within each of these three broad categories are subcategories that measure statistics such as batting average or earned run average. If a coach were to know which of these categories most contributed to teams winning baseball games within their respective conferences, then the coach would be able to tailor practices to work on these specific aspects of the game, and also know which type of player needs to be recruited for the future. This goal of this project is to uncover which statistical categories most contribute to winning baseball games in the RMAC so that the coaches of the Regis University baseball team may be able to use the information to supplement future decisions. 
